## Convolution (See the Convolution image for reference)
Convolution is a way to condense an image down to important features. Convolution in detail will be something like this: if you've ever done any kind of image processing, it usually involves having a filter and passing that filter over the image in order to change the underlying image. The process works a little bit like this. For every pixel, take its value, and take a look at the value of its neighbors. If our filter is three by three, then we can take a look at the immediate neighbor, so that you have a corresponding three by three grid. Then to get the new value for the pixel, we simply multiply each neighbor by the corresponding value in the filter. So, for example, in this case, our pixel has the value 192, and its upper left neighbor has the value zero. The upper left value and the filter is negative one, so we multiply zero by negative one. Then we would do the same for the upper neighbor. Its value is 64 and the corresponding filter value was zero, so we'd multiply those out. Repeat this for each neighbor and each corresponding filter value, and would then have the new pixel with the sum of each of the neighbor values multiplied by the corresponding filter value, and that's a convolution. It's really as simple as that. The idea here is that some convolutions will change the image in such a way that certain features in the image get emphasized. 

## Pooling (See the Pooling image for reference)
When convolution is combined with something called pooling, they can become really powerful. Pooling is a way of compressing an image. A quick and easy way to do this, is to go over the image of four pixels at a time, i.e, the current pixel and its neighbors underneath and to the right of it. Of these four, pick the biggest value and keep just that. So, for example, you can see it here. My 16 pixels on the left are turned into the four pixels on the right, by looking at them in two-by-two grids and picking the biggest value. This will preserve the features that were highlighted by the convolution, while simultaneously quartering the size of the image.

#### So, it can be said that convolution is image focusing (highlighting certain parts of the image) and pooling is image compression technique. After convolution, the centered image section gets emphasized and when it is added with pooling, the image gets more compressed and only the most important features remain for the computer to learn. Convolution and pooling can be said as more sophisticated PCA (Principal Component Analysis) technique.
